---
title: Tomorrow In My Eyes
date: 2023-09-28
categories: [fiction, short-story]
tags: [sci-fi, kind-of-sci-fi]
---

<details> 
<summary><b>Content Warning</b></summary>
<i>Swearing, Implied brutality, Implied intimacy.</i>
</details>
<p></p>

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

When I was a kid, before I was old enough to resent my own name, I remember standing beneath Jasy's only observatory with my mother, God rest her soul. Back in those days it was still officially the Bravo Colony. It had been daytime for a week. All my mother could see was the endless void surrounding the only source of colour: a blue ball spinning, moving awkwardly above the horizon. But I saw so much more.

I saw Earth, not as a point, but a long meandering line that moved up and down, that went beyond the horizon and then returned. And the void was not black, but filled with similar curves of snow white. My mother never understood my fascination with the observatory, but it was the one place on Jasy where I could see stability.

She sometimes said I had tomorrow in my eyes.

But I was thinking of precarity, then. The Colletivo Infatil was – sorry, it was the Lat-Am sector name for the union-funded schools from those days – it was teaching us about the laws of gravitation. I was also thinking of my father's daily rants against the Earth corporations and the United Nations before the Revolution ("I'm so sorry, Selena," I can still hear him say, "Earth bastards skimped on my pay again. Those stingy…", I'll leave it there).

The air was stale, which I later learned was because the manufacturers of the BioZones across the Lunar Nations triggered their fail-safes and were trying to choke us all out. But my mother didn't betray her knowledge of this information. That was my mother's quality. She was able to make you feel like the future was inevitable. As though we already knew we were on our way, we just needed the courage to see it through.

Anyway, I looked up to her and asked: "Mamãe, when the Earth is facing us, is our gravity weaker?" The question was part curiosity, part fear of the power Earth had over us. 

She was silent for a while. In retrospect I feel sorry for assaulting her with physics questions in that time, given her lack of a formal education. She was a Zero-th Generation blue-collar woman, born on Earth but spent her life on Luna as part of the Repair Corps. But I can estimate what was going through her mind.

She had just returned from the then-weekly-now-daily remote congresses at the Union. Earth refused to respond on any official channel, and the embargo against our movement was still in effect since three weeks back. 

She fought against a motion to outline a terms of surrender. She accomplished this with Antonio Guillermo Rodrigues, then the head of the Sovereign faction of the Lunar Federation of Labour. She was in the opposing faction, the Pioneers, but they managed to form a coalition against the motion. They both agreed on Lunar independence, so naturally they put aside their rivalry during the early years. 

I asked her years later, when the embargo was over, why she personally didn't support surrendering to Earth. She talked about how every colony was supporting them, how the Moon was a cultural symbol of the human race and no disproportionate force would ever be used against it, how they had every advantage. The complement to that, which she didn't say but I intuited, was that if they failed then there was never a chance in the first place. I imagine the consequence of a near-victory would have been itself a kind of total loss, in her mind. 

But back to that moment, beneath the only observatory in Jasy, beneath the drunk blue marble moving awkwardly across the sky during the week-old day. My mother turned to me, having satisfied herself with her answer.

She said, "Well, maybe, but only as much as theirs is weaker, too." 

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

Frederick Richter paused his note-taking tablet. He turned to Ms. Santos. 

"That was how you began your political life?"

"It was what inspired it, at least. The idea of interconnectivity, of the stability of the cosmos and instability of human systems." Ms. Santos wore confidence in her very being, despite her age (or perhaps because of it). She spoke like she had commanded the truth to be, as though she had already convinced you. It wasn't to say Frederick thought she was lying, but that would be for him to confirm after the interview.

"Understood. Based on your descriptions, is it fair to say you blame the early Earth government for the instability of your childhood?"

"Off the record, were the situation less tense, I would say those exact words myself. But the current government would not appreciate me ruining the de-escalation talks with the Secretary-General. On the record, I'd say any revolution has turbulent beginnings."

"Understood." He typed on the floating tablet in front of him. He was putting off the topic of the intangible. She claimed to see the orbit of the Earth; a metaphor, surely. Charismatic politicians tend to exaggerate in fantastic ways to make a point. "Was your childhood characterised by your active imagination? Did this play a part in your political career?"

"It was no imagination, Mr. Richter. And yes. It did. Always."

Frederick blinked for one second too many. He allowed himself to admit that he was thrown of balance. Perhaps that was the point? No matter. A simple change of plans was in order: the headline was going to be 'Memoir of a Loony Lunar ex-Politician' (that would earn a chuckle at the office).

"Sure. Moving on. You have, since beginning your career as a Member of the Assembly at the Lunar Union of Nations, consistently referred to the Moon's independence as an act of revolution. Care to elaborate on that before we continue?"

"Is that not what it was? We all banded together to drive out the UN Peacekeeping force, and established our very own system of governance with the help of the working people on the surface. We created a government where there was no government before. Even ignoring other policies, I'd call that revolutionary."

"I'm going to attempt to limit the scope of this interview by returning to the main topic. Would you describe what the early independence period was like, in particular during the time of the Sunset Veto Incident?" 

Frederick didn't want to scare her off, he had to ease Ms. Santos into it, but if he was going to be the first Earth journalist to interview a former LUN Member of the Assembly then he had to push into the controversial topics eventually. He needed a story to win the propaganda war, and he had a hunch that she was the key winning it. It helped that she recently changed her mind on the idea, and became so eager, to have the interview in the first place.

"Sure. That day remains at the front of my mind to this day. I need to set the scene first, however. 

"Our revolution, though necessary, was not without sacrifices. Or difficulties. One of those difficulties was Antonio Guillermo Rodrigues."

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

It was in my early adulthood and I had finally changed my name to Sabrina. I was proud that my mother named me after a moon goddess but so many Lunar girls had that name – it was a cliché, really – and I wanted to differentiate myself. It was that stage of youth. 

It must have been 6 or 7 years into the Revolution, when I was one of the leading members of a political youth group: the Young Pioneers, a big tent organisation organised from the old Colletivo Infantil cohorts. We were the disaffected: moderates, progressives, radicals. Hah, I even remember some anarchists working with us before they also became disaffected with us. 

Our unified aim was our mutual dislike (I'll be polite and say dislike) of Antonio Guillermo Rodrigues. He managed to use his image as one of the most ardent supporters of independence to carry him through the internal elections at the LFL. He became the chairman of the union, and when the LUN was established, the first Prime minister. My mother was a Member in the Higher Assembly, the leader of an opposing party of reformists: the New Party (I know, I know). 

There is more context, but this is sufficient to understand that day.

I began my day with one of the many alerts I set for myself. I was always moving, always scheming. I walked down the stairs and saw myself and my mother hugging through foresight. To avoid this, I grabbed my messenger bag and attempted to manoeuvre past present-mother, who was preparing for her umpteenth meeting with the Prime minister. She caught me and hugged me from behind, anyway.

"Now where are you off to?"

"The gym. I need to offset the exercise I didn't do last week." It wasn't a complete lie, I needed the extra gym hours or muscle atrophy would kick in soon. But I wasn't going to do it today.

She let me go. "Good. Just because you don't have a manually labouring job doesn't mean your body will forget the exercise you need-"

"I'm aware. That's why I'm doing it." I paused. "Sorry, I didn't-"

"No, I get it. Your mother is a little too controlling sometimes. But please take care of yourself."

"I will, mum." We hugged.

I left in a hurry. Because of that impromptu talk, I was going to be late for my meeting with Scott. (*Now, who is this Scott?*) He was an Artemis immigrant and a junior journalist working for the Jasy Outsider. We had been together since we met at the Citizenship & Administrative Affairs building to change our names. I could see, like an aura, the man above the person he then was. Scott is my pseudonym for him.

I turned off my magnetic boots and leapt my way through Republica street. I saw the silhouette-trajectories of the people walking change slightly as I jumped over them. You may think that the narrow corridors of Jasy would make manoeuvring hard, but this early in the day there was little congestion so I didn't need to take them into account.

I jumped over ambassadors from other Lunar Nations until I ended up in the Food District. There was a street name assigned after the Revolution, but everyone still called it (and probably still call it) the Food District.

Just before reaching the street corner leading to it, my magnetic boots turned on automatically. It was a checkpoint. I saw three officers in riot suits standing together and myself in front. I also saw multiple outcomes: the three officers attacking and detaining me, the three officers chasing me to the District, and so on. I decelerated, landing in front of them, and the landscape changed slightly, making the other outcomes slightly more transparent.

"Morning, ma'am." said the tallest one. If you looked hard enough at their helmets you could almost see the faded UN Peacekeeping emblem under the black-white of the Lunar Defence Forces one. A white circle in an infinite black, radiating beams of white, and a black-and-white shield and sword imposed in front.

"Morning, officer." They knew who I was. They knew I was an activist. Thankfully that was offset by the fact I was a politician's daughter, though not enough to make the other outcomes more transparent than they already were.

They passed their inner-arms scanners around my silhouette. No electronics apart from my phone. A nod indicated this was fine. "State your business." 

"I'm having lunch. It is in my schedule." I took out my phone and wirelessly shared my Citizen Schedule. It was a tactic to allow the government to know when people were staying in certain areas at a higher frequency than normal. Which, of course, implied you were banding together with some comrades to overthrow the government. Naturally.

The officers lazily scanned my Schedule. "Looks good. But, why the rush?"

"I'm hungry. It's my breakfast before I go do my exercise." I internally thanked my mother for the inspiration.

They stared for a few seconds longer than necessary. A message. *Sure. We may not have a reason to stop you yet, but soon we will. Until then*: "You're free to go ma'am." All other possibilities disappeared.

"Officers." I turned off my boots and continued leaping to the District. Of course I wasn't going there to eat, but the Food District provided a good excuse for frequenting certain areas. You can limit free movement but you can't stop people from eating. It was the only way I could speak with Scott.

I landed near Scott. He was in front of the coffee place, which was a stand that sold coffee from jugs imported from Artemis. It doubly worked for my purposes because the scuffed stand meant it was harder to keep it under surveillance.

"Ten points." 

"Shut up," I said. We laughed. We had a good relationship. He ordered two cups.

"How are things in-"

"Sorry, we don't have time for pleasantries." Good relationships in that time were as genuine as they were transactional, unfortunately. It's how it had to be.

"Oh ok. Sorry. So what do you have today?"

I opened the inside of my bag and removed a typed letter. I placed it in front of him.

"Alright. 'Curfew Laws will be under review this coming session, and amended. Likely to be vetoed by Antonio plus might lead to No Confidence vote on him by Opposition.' Good find."

"Thank you." We both had to play pretend and ignore where I obviously got my info from, for both our sakes. I apologised to my mother long after, when she was on her deathbed.

"And what do you think will happen?"

"I know what's going to happen. The Curfew Laws' Sunset Clause will be vetoed, the no-confidence vote will fail because the Sovereignistas-Independents coalition will block it, and we will suffer another year of Antonio. Unless."

"Sure, unless."

"The Pioneers have something to say about it."

"Sabrina-"

"No, think about it. Protests across Luna calling for Antonio's removal on the day of his no-confidence vote? We don't need all of the Coalition to vote yes, just enough for a two thirds majority. The Members of the Assembly care about their re-election chances, and they are a minority government so the independents will likely vote yes afterwards, and-"

"Sabrina. You're placing a lot of hope on the Pioneers, and that the Sovereignistas even care about popular opinion. More importantly, this is fucking dangerous. Are you sure?"

I paused. I knew he was right about the risk. But I had tomorrow in my eyes. I needed him for the plan to work, and Scott responded well to confidence. So I said, "Yes. Absolutely. The silent majority want Antonio gone, they just think he is a necessary evil who brings stability. We need to show there is no stability."

He sighed. "Very well. And if the person to replace him is worse? An authoritarian that cares less for the Constitution than he does?"

"It won't come to that. The reformists will form a government. They have the votes." Unearned confidence, again, but I had no other choice.

"I hope you know what you are talking-"

I saw the transparent aura of my phone in front of me and picked it up from my pocket a few seconds too early. A beat, then our phones vibrated. We saw the notification: 'Lunar Sovereignty Laws Sundown Clause – Passed by Simple Majority in Higher Assembly – Now on Prime Minister's Desk.'

"Well, now I really can't waste any time. See you-"

"Wait." He grabbed my lower arm. "I need to know you know what you are doing."

"I'll be fine, Scott. Now let me go and we'll talk again tonight."

He sighed. "Ok. Just…" He let go. "Be safe, okay?"

"I won’t." We chuckled. 

I made my way out of the Food District.

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

"Ms. Santos, I have several questions. Firstly, are you admitting to engaging in collusion with the press to oust a Prime minister from power?"

"You're telling me no one leaks to the press on Earth? Yes, I did."

"This is a major reveal. Does this Scott-"

"Yes, he knows."

"Why the sudden honesty, Ms. Santos?" He was pushing. He thought she might snap eventually but he needed her to say it. 

"The reason why is, as always, politics. During these turbulent times I want to help shed light on Lunar society and appeal to your audience to prevent conflict between our governments. I thought an honest explanation of my own life might help change your perspective of Luna."

"Okay." So she was doing a tell-all? Either way this was gold for the propaganda front, so why stop her? "And about the claim to see the future? Care to describe what that is like?"

"It used to be easier, and nowadays it is a little harder, but…" She closed her eyes for a moment. "Imagine you are an ant standing on a tall mountain. You’re at the peak. When you move, your tiny view of the whole changes. The ant tries to get to the lowest level possible, to return home. It can only see select parts, and whenever it moves, its view of the terrain changes. Sometimes the act of moving changes the terrain slightly, it kicks a tiny pebble or some dust up, say. So it can't pick the most efficient path down, but it can estimate what is the path that takes it the closest to where it wants to go given where it currently is."

"Very high-concept, Ms. Santos."

"That metaphor explains the most of it. Instead of space, I see futures. The more likely they are, the harder it is to see through them."

Frederick assumed the pressure of politics and Solar radiation ruined her mind, but no matter. The current interview was already enough to win him a god damn Pulitzer. 

"But I'd like to get back to the story of that day, if you wouldn't mind."

"Of course, Ms. Santos. Please continue."

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

I left the District – after facing another checkpoint, of course – and went home. My mother was in the Assembly, dealing with the backlash of the veto most likely. If she was half as pragmatic as I was, and she was, she was using this as a chance to unite the Opposition. 

The Young Pioneers, due to our political nature, could not meet in any one place and risk being surveilled or raided. That's why we all met remotely. The calls were obfuscated through several layers, using an altered protocol – I won't name which as I believe certain groups use it to this day – with dummy protocols as a front. Our meetings were all hidden as regular traffic. 

I called for a meeting of the heads of each Young Pioneers branch across Luna. I led Jasy's. We had a confederate structure, meaning the heads of each branch had to reach consensus for decisions to apply to the whole organisation. I will use pseudonyms for them, in order to protect them from unwanted attention.

Felicia, head of the Artemis branch, asked "How do we trust this intelligence?" 

I didn't tell them it came from me, it would make me too suspicious, or worse, make me look like a government plant. "The first two parts seemed to be true, the Sunset Clause passed Parliament and Antonio vetoed it. The no-confidence part is probably true given what we know about the Opposition's ambitions."

"Sure, but say it does. What stops him from blaming us for inciting instability, making the whole act of putting the instability on him pointless?"

"I agree," said Shruti, head of the Soma branch. "There is very little guarantee this will actually do anything. I mean, if we are going to do anything, surely we should put this to a vote at each branch. Those that want to protest do, those that don't-"

"Should be condemned. Comrades, are we actually willing to suffer another term of the same Prime minister that said, and I quote: 'I'll get rid of the curfews when the Lunar people show themselves ready for freedom?'", Alex said, Elatha's head. He didn't take much convincing, as the most radical head of the Pioneers.

"Alex makes a good point," I said, "The risk is not something we can ignore, this is true, but Antonio has to go. We should send a message to all our members calling to join our protest. If we do it, we'll get ahead of the inevitable no-confidence vote and have the chance of changing its outcome." That was the key to getting things done in committee. Play the moderate, even when you are the one proposing the plan. If you concede just enough, then:

"No one is saying this isn't a good opportunity to spread our message." Shruti said. "But what if they sick the cops on us. Are either of you willing to say to our members that you guarantee their safety?"

"No I can't," I said. "But we can't guarantee their safety if we don't do anything, either." That was it. The money winner. Equating the downsides of either plan, making yours the only option with an advantage. Shruti was convinced. However:

“I’m sorry, I can’t put my people in danger like that.” said Felicia. “We can plan individual actions, sure, but something this big? It is exactly the excuse the cops need to label us as agitators, on top of being seen as aimless radical punks.”

I realised that without sacrifice I would not be able to convince Felicia and the plan would fail. So I said, “I am willing be the scapegoat if it fails, or worse. If it does, I will claim responsibility for this plan, and accept my resignation from the Young Pioneers.” 

There was silence before Felicia put it up to a vote. It was unanimous. There were going to be protests in every colony in 8 hours. I said I wanted 10, Alex wanted 4, we compromised. Committee, am I right?

"I hope to God I made the right decision," Shruti said.

Me too.

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

"Ms. Santos, are you alright?" Frederick noticed her looking to the right of his shoulder, towards the window's view of the Lunar desert.

"I'm fine." 

"If the subject matter is too traumatic, perhaps-"

"No, I'm fine. The interview can continue."

"Of course, Ms. Santos. Apologies."

She breathed in, and out. He thought he saw her mumbling something. Maybe it was: *I can still see it*. 

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

We were nearing the end of the cycle, so the street’s lights were dimming. Since the vote, I pulled every connection I had in Jasy to spread the word – discreetly – that there was going to be a protest in 6 hours. 

As I sent my final message, I saw my mother in the kitchen before she arrived. I hid myself near the entrance. My mother, though pragmatic, would have ruined the project if she knew. 

I skirted around her when she entered and discreetly left through the door. As I left I saw her kneel in the kitchen and speak to herself. She was praying. I wished I could have stood there with her.

Leaping through Jasy, now under the cover of the end-of-cycle darkness, I dodged some checkpoints along the way. I found myself at Scott's apartment. 

I knocked on his door. He… no this isn't right. 

(*Sorry?*) 

This isn't right. If I tell you right now you won't see it like I did. I need to show you the consequences, before. 

I slept in his home for a few hours. When I woke it was 1 hour until the demonstration. Scott lent me his BC, a floating broadcaster that follows you and transmits the live feed elsewhere. A relic some decades before your time. I said to the branch heads that the march of the Young Pioneers required each location to have its own BC for maximum impact.

It was nearly morning, so I still had the advantage of darkness to go around the checkpoints.

Then I arrived at the starting point of the protest: the only observatory in Jasy. It made me nostalgic. I could see a cloud of potential-people surrounding it. The plan would work, I was sure of it.

In the brief time left before the event, I entered the observatory. Normally I don't like looking up because of the trauma of what I saw when I was younger, but given how important that day was I decided to indulge the intrusive thought.

I went to the civilian section, and looked up at the view of the sky. And there it was, clear as it was 4 years before. A nuclear warhead the length of a Lunar Nation. Like the eye of God it stared at me and through me. I-

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

"Pardon, Ms. Santos?"

"Yes?" She was confused, lost in her own narrative no doubt. She had to be.

"You saw a nuclear warhead hanging above you 38 years ago?"

"I saw it, and I often still do. Sometimes it increases in size, sometimes the model changes, sometimes it flickers for a microsecond and then returns as an EMP weapon that is yet to be. It has become more translucent in recent years, but at the time it was solid – as though it was really there!"

Frederick was trying to understand. It was just too much, even as a crazy grandma's story. "You mean to say that the Moon is destined to be nuked?"

"Not destined. It is the most likely outcome. It was becoming more and more solid with each passing year of Prime minister Rodrigues's administration. You must understand my fear in those years, and my fear even now."

"Ms. Santos, you are the strangest politician I have ever interviewed."

"As I expected. You don't believe me. But no matter. Back to the event."

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

Staring down the warhead gave me more confidence in my plan – a kind of self-righteousness you get when you know the alternative is worse.

When I left there were some attendees, and more were slowly trickling in. They all wore all-black recycled rags which covered from head to toe. The goal was the hide their faces and bodies from the police’s recognition-software. I simply wore what I had always worn: hand-me-downs from my mother's Repair Corps days.

I turned around before I felt a hand touch my back. 

"Ah! Uh, Ms. Santos?" It was a teenager, maybe 17 or 18. Of course. Of course.

"Yeah, that's me."

"Right, why are you not hiding your face?"

"I was the one that proposed the protest. If anything should go wrong, I shouldn't hide behind a mask. I need to take responsibility for what happens to us all."

"Oh. Ok. Thanks, I suppose." 

"This your first demonstration?"

"Yeah."

"Good on you. I'll see you on the other side."

"Thanks, Ms. Santos."

The deference to authority made me cringe, but it was inevitable in my case, I supposed.

We waited for half an hour until we had the attendance of over 200 people. At that point I had finished programming the BC to follow me in the shadows of the buildings around us. I released it and it floated up until it was near the ceiling, focusing it’s lens on us, broadcasting to every official frequency. No one found it until the day after.

Then, when I confirmed that everything was ready, I took a nearby megaphone.

"Comrades!" Everyone stopped talking and stared. The cloud of future people stopped moving.

"We have suffered under Antonio and his government for too long." I took a deep breath, and the future came into focus: multiple police officers will have surrounded us. They were opaque, inevitable.

"When we led a revolution against the Earth government, we dreamed to achieve more and become more than any human before. We have the privilege of living at the edge of the Earth-Luna system. Our outstretched hands can touch the very stars!"

That earned some 'yeahs!' Soon, officers were on the scene. They had wirelessly turned all our boots on, and surrounded all the street exits. The mood of the crowd shifted and became agitated. There was no escape anymore.

"We went through a revolution!” I said, “Our children could be born into a society radically different from our own, as different as that from our own to our parents. But beyond a change in borders, what do we have to show for it?" For now all the officers were staring us down, but a series of futures presented themselves to me: an officer with a megaphone shouting, one of the Pioneers attacking a cop, and so on. There was one future I focused on the most: an officer, walking up to me. We needed to remain peaceful, otherwise we would not maintain the moral advantage in the public’s eye. I had to agitate further.

"We need a new government, one that doesn't focus on stability through fear and coercion! We deserve to see our Revolution fulfilled! Our founding fathers and mothers dreamed…," I hesitated. The future where the teenage Pioneer attacked an officer became clearer. I needed to pull back.

“… of a positive peace, a positive justice. Did we not reject the Earth government for this? We want Luna to be the future of humankind! We must likewise demand this! Demand the Guillermo Administration to cease it’s obstruction of justice! Demand freedom! Demand justice!” The crowd chanted the last phrase. The foresight-silhouette of the teenage Pioneer disappeared, but I could not see the officer that would attack me.

“Comrades! Are you not harassed by the Lunar Defence Force? Do they not humiliate you on a daily basis? What do they hope to find? Weapons? Do they think us to be terrorists for simply being honest with our opinions of this government? We demand consequences! We demand accountability over the LDF, and recognition of their brutality and lawlessness! We-” 

I stopped. I saw an officer walking up to me. The future became final: an officer will have pushed me to the ground. From there it was chaos in the short-term. People will be hurt. I knew it from the start, but the thought of seeing my friends and comrades attacked scared me. I thought of the teenager. I thought of the other branch heads dozens of kilometres away.

Then I remembered the warhead above. It was easy after that. 

An officer pushed me to the ground. I’ll stop there.

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

"I won't force you to describe it any further."

"Thank you."

"What happened afterwards?"

"My plan worked out but not as I expected. Even with the gift of foresight, one can't determine the best way to reach a future.

"I was beaten and detained. So were most of my friends. The event changed the minds of a few MAs, but not enough. The no-confidence vote failed. I lost my position as head of the Jasy branch, losing the respect of my former Colletivo Infantil colleagues. But my mother…" she chuckled.

"She became incensed. She led a name-and-shame campaign against the Coalition and every action of the Prime minister from then on. That was one of the factors for triggering a second no-confidence vote a few months later and the Coalition broke down."

"Then your mother became the second Prime minister, correct?"

"Indeed. A snap-election caused the Sovereignistas to lose their seats and the Opposition became a Majority government. I become an MA during her second term.”

"Do you consider your actions to have single-handedly changed history?"

"Don't be silly, of course not. I'm a realist. That next day, after the Sunset Veto Incident, there were prison riots from political prisoners when the heard about what happened. There were also parallel student movements that were inspired by what we did. We weren't the sufficient factor, but certainly a necessary one, for removing the Soverignistas from power."

“And the warhead? Did it disappear?”

“It became more transparent as time went by.”

"Do you know why Rodrigues's administration would have led to the destruction of your society?"

"I have one interpretation. He was an authoritarian and a military positivist. Sooner or later he would have started posturing against Earth over their defensive capabilities at the cost of the welfare of Luna and that would be the excuse they needed to put an end to our experiment."

"Do you know this because you foresaw it?"

"No, I just know what an asshole was." She chuckled.

It was confusing. Ms. Santos was clearly disturbed in some way, but she was also disturbingly sober. He was no psychiatrist, but she was not the epitome of crazy-politician syndrome. She was just a grandma, without the grandchildren.

“But it didn’t succeed completely, did it? After the Prime minister that succeeded your mother, the Lunar Defence Force suspended your constitution and has had a role in the Executive Branch ever since. You lost your seat when they expelled the Assembly, didn’t you?”

For the first time, Ms. Santos did not have a quick, self-assured response. She stared just right of Frederick’s shoulder, and sighed.

"And what about that moment? The one before the police? At your boyfriend’s home?"

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

I knocked on his door. He walked out, revealing his open-shirted self. 

"Howdy, there." He was a mist of probability, swaying right and left. He was tipsy.

"I need a place to stay before the event hits off."

His shirt was unbuttoned. I could see the curved scars that highlighted the separation of his belly from his chest, and how they would heal and disappear in the future. For now he was just clumsy and anxious Scott.

"Is this a part of your plan or-"

"Just let me in, Scott."

"Hah! Come on in."

I walked in and the mist did not clear up. Scott broke down every heuristic I had for making sense of my foresight. He could be anywhere, which was actually kind of reassuring. It meant I could focus on the present.

"Is your Pioneers plan overwhelming you?"

"No, I'm good. I said I’d be coming over later, and now is later. I just need a place to stay to hide my movement from the police. I don't want to burden my mum." I lied, then, because I was not ready for the other sacrifice I had to make.

"Sure. Makes sense. Want to join me in my celebration?"

"What celebration?" 

He grinned. "I was going to wait to tell you this later, but – oh to hell with it. I'm being promoted! You're looking at the Jasy Outsider's new Foreign Affairs Correspondent for Artemis. Thanks for your help, by the by."

That explained the drinking. "I just want to go rest, honestly. Do you have another room?"

He giggled. "Another room, what do you think I am now, the owner of the Outsider? I'm lucky to have the apartment!"

"Ah, of course. Sorry."

"What for? You can always take my bed and I'll sleep on the couch. I can make do."

"You are an angel, Scott."

He walked me to his room, making ripples in the future as he did. He swayed slightly. I didn't deserve him, but here he was. Helping me change the future. 

"So, anything on your mind?"

I saw flickers, then. Scott, standing in front of me, in an embrace. It appeared and disappeared just as quick. At the moment I just wanted him to make a move for Christ's sake. But now I see how indecisive he was, a product of being a human rather than a calculator like me. I saw other flickering futures too. I saw us both in bed, I saw him kissing me, I saw him screaming and pointing at the door. I saw and saw and saw. And I broke down in tears.

"Woah, what's wrong Sabrina?"

I just would not stop crying. I managed to say: "I'm sorry."

He hugged me, and the future condensed itself. It was just me and him. 

"I need to do this and… God, I'm sorry."

"Calm down, Sabrina. Do what?"

I took a piece of paper from my messenger bag. I gave it to him. "I need you to send this to the police. Tell them it's urgent. Tell them-"

"Hold on. Let me read it." He opened the letter and read. "'There is going to be a militant meeting of the political extremist group the Young Pioneers across all Lunar Nations. Their meetings will take place-' what the hell?"

"I know. But I need to, you have to submit it as an anonymous tip-"

"Sabrina, what's happening? Why are you selling out your friends like this?" Scott was sober now. The mist of futures was gone.

"You were right. The protests will do jack shit if everything goes according to plan. Soverignistas don't feel shame, they are not capable of it. But they can be shamed. If the peaceful protest turns to brutality, it will send a far more powerful message than it would without it."

"And you are willing to sacrifice the safety of your friends whilst you sit on the sidelines like some – like some Machiavellian hero?"

"No. I'll be there. I have to. It is the only way I can clear my conscience." And it was true. It is true.

"I mean, shit, Sabrina." He looked into my eyes and I saw a superposition around his pupils. He was searching around my soul, and slowly coming to the realisation that I wasn't human. 

"I'm sorry to ask you to do this. Even if your name won't be revealed, having that on your conscience must be awful. I know because it is awful for me too."

"I need to know why. No more ends justify the means bullshit. Tell me why."

So I told him. All of it. Until today he was the only one who knew about my foresight.

He sat down. We ran through some tests to prove I wasn't crazy. He believed me. I told him about the intrasystem ballistic missile hanging over my head. He agreed to the plan. Years later he would forgive me and years after we remained aquaintences, not lovers. I would always be inhuman in his eyes. I'm sorry, Scott.

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

Frederick stopped taking notes long ago. Hopefully the recorder was still running to catch everything else.

"And that's my story." She was moving in her chair. Discomfort. She was at the edge of something.

"Why me? Why reveal all of this in an anti-moon propaganda interview?" He didn't care for hiding it anymore. If Ms. Santos was as politically savvy as she used to be, she knew it already.

"Because I have a favour to ask of you. I have lost all political capital I had in my life, and no more favours to call on. But, in the past week, the warhead has become less and less transparent. I need you to help spread anti-conflict narratives on Earth. All other tactics had limited success, I thought that full honesty might work this time. This was my last tactic, the end of my plotting."

"How do you know I can help? Your revolution failed when the Lunar Defence Forces formed a Junta! Maybe your efforts-" are what led to the dictatorship. Is what he wanted to say, but no. He wouldn’t. Too cruel. Instead: “Maybe you can’t help. Maybe you can’t control it.”

"We can always influence our future, even slightly!" She was screaming now. "I have lost my position as head of the Jasy branch of the Young Pioneers! I lost my seat as a Member of the Assembly! I have lost all respect amongst my political peers! I lost the one chance I had of being loved! At every point in my life I have stared down that warhead and I have sworn to fight it off whilst I still had blood in my veins. I let the future take from me like a leech. I have sacrificed and sacrificed until all that remained was an old woman with stories of when there was such as thing as Revolution!"

"And still you are fighting it. It never succeeded, did it?"

"What would you have me do differently?" She stared Frederick down. Her gaze lost all the demeanour of a grandma, revealing the possession of a ghost. 

"Maybe Rodrigues would have been removed from office in time without your incident. Thousands would not be injured, some would still be alive. Maybe the name-and-shame campaign by your mother placed increased pressure on the LDF to assert its legitimacy.” He almost cringed at himself, blaming tragedy on an old woman, but what was said was said.

"Oh yes. As though you were the one with foresight." 

"You said yourself that you don't know the best path down from the mountain."

"But I know of the paths leading down. And if what you say is true…" she slowed, her eyes blinking, "then… did I chose the wrong future?” 

“Ms. Santos?” 

“Did I chose the wrong future… mamãe?” Her gaze was unfocused, wet. “What was I to do? You said it, you promised me the future! I did everything to protect your Revolution. You…” She was mumbling through tears. The spell was gone. She was no longer the pragmatic politician he came to interview. She was an old woman outside of time. 

Frederick would interview others from the period to corroborate her testimony. Maybe he would heed her warning, maybe not. He still did not believe in her ‘foresight’, but this vivid of an account of fear and paranoia over annihilation was sobering, at least.

He stopped the recorder, placed it into his bag, and stood up to leave.

“I guess…” she whispered something, but Frederick was not listening anymore. He was gone and away into the narrow streets of Jasy. 

Sabrina, formerly Selena, stared at the lonely Lunar desert, seeing Artemis in the far distance. A sharp line hung above it. One warhead underwent mitosis and became two, then four. One for each Lunar Nation. She repeated:

“I guess, had too much of tomorrow in my eyes, mamãe.”