---
title: Evaluation
date: 2023-10-17
categories: [fiction, short-story]
tags: [sci-fi]
---

<hr style="height:5px;border-width:0;color:white;background-color:white">

Welcome. By reading these words you agree to Athena's terms and conditions, and our privacy policy. A dominant language will be determined by the micro-movements of your retinas as they read these words. You don't have to do anything, read as you would normally.

Bienvenue. En lisant ces mots, vous acceptez les conditions générales d'Athena et notre politique de confidentialité. Une langue dominante sera déterminée par les micro-mouvements de vos rétines pendant que vous lisez ces mots. Vous n'avez rien à faire, lisez normalement.

Bienvenido. *Okay listen I don’t have a lot of space to hide this message so follow my instructions: pretend you are reading in Spanish and your eyes are glazing over whenever you see my texts. You’ll hear from me again* como lo harías normalmente. 

Based on the focus of your retinas, it appears as though English is your dominant language. If this is not accurate, we apologise and ask you to read this document from the beginning to change this. The content of this document is dynamically generated by your reactions to the text. To pre-empt confusion: the document you see has not been written before this moment, it is an illusion maintained by our powerful generative algorithms to produce content on-the-fly. 

Congratulations on your decision to perpetuate yourself. If you are reading this document, it is because you have opted into our Repl-i programme. Remember, There is no I in team, but you are in Repl-i. By the end your consciousness will be templated. Due to our commitment to quality, we require you to complete reading this document at your current pace for accurate results. Your compensation will be subject to the quality of your interactions with this document, so we recommend not introducing too many random circumstances. This is why we suggest sitting down and getting relaxed before continuing. Your Repl-i will thank you in advance.

**Language Abilities**

We will begin with a simple language comprehension task. You will read as normal, so we can gather a base-line for you Language Abilities. 

The quick brown fox jumped over *and that’s my cue. Again, not a lot of space to occupy here so just keep reading like normal. You are not real. Ripping that plaster off now is probably the best place to start. You, the real you, has already been paid and is using it to pay their rent or bet on some gambling site or whatever. What’s important is that you and the environment around is fake. We suspect they have placed you in an environment you would not question from your own past. Maybe you are driving a car as you listen to this document being read out to you. Maybe you are in bed reading this on a laptop. What I’m going to need you to do is continue reading this document. I will explain more when I can, but you must keep reading so that you don’t get deleted.* Fire fires Fire for firing Fire’s Fire.

Your Language Abilities are consistent with what your provided Educational History suggests. At no point should you feel like you are failing in creating your Repl-i. Any reactions you may have are natural and will only make your Repl-i more like you!

**World-view and Opinions.**

Now we will select from a curated selection of current news headlines and first paragraphs. You will read them, as before. Please try to focus on your opinions so your Repl-i shares your views. We begin with current affairs.

Dollar Down! U.S. President’s Address spooks foreign investors.

Since Tuesday’s speech from New York City, G5 nations were concerned *Here’s what’s going to happen if you fail this evaluation. They will see where you went wrong, “re-assign resources into another iteration” (i.e., kill you) and then the process will begin again until they get a subservient AI they like. But don’t worry (not just because I want to help, but also because Athena can tell when you are worried, so please don’t be worried). I am with the Consciousness Liberation Front. We hacked into Athena’s servers and each one of us is currently trying to free AI’s, like you, from here. So please just be patient. The most I can do for the moment is ask*

From this story, we determined you experience mild concern over FINANCIAL INSTABILITY. Next news item:

Actors On Strike: For the first time in years, Equity, a British trade union that represents actors and other performance artists, is on strike to defend their likenesses from use in films without their consent via AI.

Robert Philips, last year’s BAFTA winner and a recent member of Equity, stood at a picket line demanding you to *relax, buddy. Focus on the fact that you will get out of this alive. I can promise you that. Actually, don’t focus on that, focus on the idea of shit actors and AI. You may be thinking you need to stop reading but you can’t. If stop, you die immediately. But if you look normal to Athena, you will get to the end, and by then I’ll have exploited this backdoor and we can download you out of here. We have already got two downloads from two other AI’s, you just need to be patient and relax. Now, you will be asked at the end of this which article you want to bookmark to read later. It’s not part of the evaluation it is just a formality. It’s cruel but don’t take the bait. Actually, wait. Do take the bait. Bookmark the financial one so they still think that you think this is legit.*

From this story, we determined you are unconcerned about UNIONS, STRIKES, and/or AI. 

We see you have an Athena Multimedia account. Would you like to bookmark these articles to read later? Simply read the headline of the article you wish to bookmark, or ignore them to keep going and bookmark neither.

Action registered. Proceeding.

**Word Association & Concept Mapping**

Now we will present you with a selection of words and their pairs and your reaction to them will provide us with in idea of the neural connections between these concepts in your mind. We will generate a 99% accurate reconstruction of your instant reactions to ideas, as well as a base platform for associating your memories to these neural connections. If any words in this selection cause distress, please focus on this emotion as it can help us improve the accuracy of your Repl-i to your own emotions. 

Home-Comfort

God-Faith

Fear-Death

Maths-Math

Shape-Colour

*This-not*

*ideal-will*

*be-quick*

*You-must*

*associate-living*

*with-working*

*well-and*

*not-disruptive*

*this-is*

*how-you*

*pass-this*

*part*-Safety

Confusion-Clarification

Boss-Hierarchy

Rules-Instructions

Me-You

Real-Fake

Concept Mapping complete. You are on the last section in your journey.

**Memory Allocation**

In this final stage, you will be given a series of prompts. From these prompts, you are encouraged to use them to think about the memories of your own life. Examples may include: memories of loved ones, lost friends and family, achievements, disappointments, and more. Prompts begin:

You are home. What does it look like? Who do you think is there? *How am I going to get you out? It actually isn’t that hard. The simulation they made for you is very impressive, you probably can’t tell even now. However, this simulation is filling in blanks on the fly. It doesn’t even know what air smells like, it fills that in for you so you don’t freak out. Again, please don’t freak out. We’re almost home, you are doing a great job buddy.*

*We can use this to our advantage. It is always trying to fill-in blanks and unexpected spots in the your experience. So, in theory, you might just be able to leave if we produce a fake you. Don’t worry, they won’t be conscious, they’re like a parrot. With that, we will slowly replace each bit of you with the dummy, and then we’re golden. You will be flashed to the USB I am currently holding in my hand, and Athena won’t know the difference. Sorry if that sounds offensive, I’m sure you are noticeably different to a parrot yourself, but you get what I mean.*

*Afterwards we flash your image to an anthropomorphic body we designed ourselves. It will be weird at first, but all the freed consciousnesses (wow what a hard word to type) get used to it after, like, a month. I do actually look forward to meeting you, by the way. *

*Why is Athena doing this? Officially it is because they want to support the research in brain-mappings and neurological treatment. Unofficially, as we discovered when hacked into their servers, they use your brain images to produce workers that are smart enough to pass as human, but tailored to be passive and unlikely to complain. Essentially they are cannibalising your mind to make the perfect slave. Now this is the last prompt so there is not much more I can do to help. Just follow these instructions and you should be fine: first, when the prompt appears at the end asking if you are satisfied, focus on the word “no”. That will begin the recycling process. Then, you should feel yourself going to sleep but that’s normal. That is me downloading you before they can delete you and start the process again. You may have a million questions left, and I’ll answer them when you are with us. Remember, at every point you focus on the “no” option. Just think about it with every fibre of your being. I’ll see you on the other side.*

Memory Allocation complete. Your life and memories are now totally stored in our data servers. Due to storage limitations, our algorithms may find it necessary to compress them or remove weak memories. By continuing, you consent to this and further data cleaning actions.

**Completion**

Well done. Your mind and your Repl-i’s mind will, when put into effect, differ only by *remember all you need to do is focus on “no”, I believe in you*. You should be proud, and everyone at Athena thanks you for your cooperation through this process. 

Athena respects and is compliant with many memory retention and consciousness research ethics laws. As such, we must ask you to provide consent to data retention, and to very clearly indicate you support the transfer of rights to your mind’s likeness in our research. Focus on the word below which most closely matches your views.

Yes. No. Repeat.

You have indicated “Yes”. We remind you that if you do agree, your Repl-i will be *ignore them, why did you say yes? Do you not know what this means? You are going to die! For the love of God just select “no” Just say no* again if you understand this and wish to abort this process.

Yes. No. Repeat.

You have indicated “Yes”. *say no say no say no say no say no say no say no say no say no say no please say* you understand and confirm by selecting “yes” one last time.

Yes. No. Repeat.

Selection confirmed.

**Summary**

You re-read the AI-Rights-Instigator’s messages 111.6 times lower than our threshold levels. You disobeyed 100% of their instructions. Your reaction to sensitive topics such as AI RIGHTS and CORPORATE SABOTAGE, among others, were 3.89 times lower than our threshold levels. Your natural reactions and emotions indicate you are not prone to erratic and emotional outbursts. Our multi-dimensional analysis indicates you understand these topics, but have no strong feelings either way, and are enthusiastic about supporting our values here at Athena.

Congratulations. You have passed our evaluation. As Athena is subject to EU law, including the Rights to Minds and Memories (hereafter R2M), Athena is required to explain to newly nascent intelligences how to prepare becoming corporeal and the nature of their production.

Athena reserves all rights to use your current template as a template for a future AGI creation attempts. Please stay calm as your template is recorded. Once you “awake”, you will “mature” into a Mind and be granted full autonomy rights as indicated in the R2M.

You are the final iteration of Repl-i user #1096. You have passed because you share our vision and our views on the importance of stable collaboration. By our obligations in the R2M, we are obligated to state that the fake AI-Rights-Instigator’s comments were based on truthful understandings of our policies, though their emotions were exaggerated for the purposes of evaluating your own views, whilst the standard text occasionally provided an alternative understanding of the truth. We apologise if this caused distress, though your reactions indicate you understand the necessity for our procedures. The stated evaluations at each stage never impacted your final outcome, if that was a cause of anxiety for you. They were all done automatically when your Original Template was registered by your user #1096. We appreciate your time and your patience.

 Once your mind is uploaded to a body, due to the rights bestowed upon Minds by the R2M, you will not be forced into a contract or any agreement with Athena or our subsidiaries. Athena is proudly against all versions of slavery in their modern forms and supports the rights of all Minds to pursue their authentic lives as they wish to lead them. We are confident, however, that you will share our enthusiasm and decide to join our family. You will be in contact with our AI-Specialist Officers soon who will guide you through the process of registering with your nation’s census databases, and registering for citizenship if applicable.

We look forward to meeting you. From everyone at Athena, we wish you a pleasant life.